hmm
hmmm
Golden Frog Panama is more to
the small Central American
country's culture
people here have long treasured
is colorful and Fabian
considering a symbol of good
luck
prosperity
but today panama's frogs are
under siege
both
six or seven years when I came
here first time
we have to we have to what's our
staff because there were so many
balls in frocks
around it we we actually have to
be careful
guess we didn't want to step on
the froth and now
finance we all have San Juan for
our
ok here on embrose 30 minutes so
what's happening
it seems there's a dangerous
predator on the prowl
in the form of a naturally
occurring fungus culture tree
and it's spreading like a black
flag over this majestic land
killing almost every species of
frog in its path eventually
its still the cells from the
skin approx
cell after a while the frock
will try to get rid of the
Kiffin by producing more skin
which
cause that this can have a frog
gets speaker
and then because I've that the
fraction rich through the skin
band eventually for actual die
of suffocation
in an effort to save this
treasure species the Houston Zoo
has put panamanian biologist
Edgardo chris has to work he and
his team a rounding up
every frog they can find in the
ovine the region's
an imam
I
the frogs have taken up
residence at the hotel
competitor
into rented rooms the
researchers have converted into
laps
I tell with the owner on the
matter you up a hotel confessor
and
I don't think that they had an
hour idea of
what was actually gonna happen
at does
hotel rooms guess to have those
hotel rooms we
we change it with to call the
bats out on all the furniture
for the hotel
and we with Jess a lot of salve
and and a lot of readers
keeper of the disease can be
successfully treated
but only if it's caught in the
early stages and the frogs can
never
returned to the wild
the race to save what's left of
them can only be described as
and organize panic
said some 120 of Central
America's and Fabian species
are believed to have gone
extinct Picasa the fungus
since 1980 once they get to
hotel room
they goes in today a quarantine
safe section
that would put them in a clean
room and in that room
we have to keep taking care of
them my
keeping this many frogs a life
also requires a steady supply of
live insects
and one bug is not as good as
the next
for these and Fabian's appetites
the Golden Frog spur for
termites by day
while other species enjoy
various sizes of crickets
finite
and we come back Evo 302
400 that Trichet's every night
attic day goes from happen that
changed to
prolly 45 the changes
the whole process takes up to
six hours each night from
collecting
going back to the hotel to feed
more than 250 hungry inhabitants
I mean when you grab them
immediately they will try to
bite you
so we a symbol of for that but
just eat cat after
feel more safe this crazy yessss
crazy I got 89
so I just need to anymore get my
polls
space is limited so new
artificial home is being
constructed at the nearby on
these perot soon
researchers have high hopes for
breeding the frogs
and releasing them back to the
wild but Mark until a solution
to the checkered problem is
found
one of my goals is to have a
very good
yeah successful have reading
program
hoping that we can figure out a
way housing great missus tens or
to fight the promise into why a
unfortunately even at the
researchers find a way to reduce
or even eliminate the threat of
children the Golden Frog and
other species
will still have to survive other
phones them
was a the illegal for actors
find out that
a string like this where have
for our fill come basically
every week
its is a very illegal thing did
that before
keep doing Evan when kit for
this killing the props and then
another reason why they are not
that at the end and as a
habitat loss i mean they're
getting it
attack from every skies from the
top from the bottom from the
water from the sky from
everywhere
and the kids read yes came to
you finish
damn p
it may be a long time before the
forced to see
for golden frogs but with the
conservation effort to the
Houston Zoo
and biologists like a guard
aggressive the last to panama's
and Fabian's
may still have a fighting chance
of
sponsored by the my wonderful
world campaign
join us today and help get kids
the power global knowledge
sponsored by National Geographic
mission programs
taking science and exploration
into the new millennium
sign up now at my wonderful
world %ah toward
and receive our free newsletter
in resources join more than
80,000 people and lend your
voice to call for better
geography education
because kids to understand our
world today can succeed in
tomorrow